Title: ResCon Overview
Slug: rescon-overview
Authors: James Begley
Summary: ResCon Overview and Outline Timetable

## ResCon 19 Overview and Outline Timetable

An outline schedule for the weekend is given below. More precise timings will be available at the event itself. All attendees will be given a more detailed schedule on arrival

### Friday 6th September

The ResCon site will be open for conference attendees to arrive and pitch tents from 18:00, and the on-site bar will open at 18:00 for the sale of refreshment.

The opening session will start at 19:30, with a welcome from the local Wells MP James Heappey, the BCRC Chairman Peter Dennis and the MCR Secretary Martin Grass. This will be followed by a showing of a number of archive films featuring Mendip Cave Rescue, along with a Ploughman's buffet.

The bar will close at midnight.

### Saturday 7th September

Breakfast will be available from 08:00, along with tea and coffee (which will be available through the day).

The presentations will start at 10:00, followed by a number of practical sessions. There will also be a series of sessions held in Wookey Hole, aimed at cave diving rescues, which "dry" cavers will be welcome to attend. Lyon equipment will be holding a number of  demonstrations, allowing people to discuss the use of various items of equipment.

The on-site bar will be open from 12:00 noon for the sale of refreshment.

At 17:00, the Wessex Challenge will be held. This is a team obstacle course race that is held every couple of years, as a social occasion between Mendip Caving Clubs. This year the challenge will have a rescue theme, and visiting rescue teams are encouraged to take part.

During the evening there will be a hog roast (and vegetarian alternative), followed by music from a local band "Seatrees".

The bar will close at midnight.

### Sunday 8th September

Breakfast will be available from 08:00, along with tea and coffee (which will be available through the day).

The presentations will start at 10:00, followed by a number of practical sessions. There will also be rescue practice, with the rescue of an injured diver from beyond sumps in Wookey Hole, to be run with both diving and non-diving rescuers. Lyon equipment will be holding a number of  demonstrations, allowing people to discuss the use of various items of equipment.

The on-site bar will be open from 12:00 noon for the sale of refreshment, and will close at 17:00.

