Title: ResCon Saturday
Slug: rescon-saturday
Authors: James Begley
Summary: ResCon Saturday Activities

## ResCon 19 Saturday Activities

### ResCon 19 Saturday Timetable

Activities during Saturday will be split between the main marquee at Ebborways Farm, and nearby at Wookey Hole Caves where there will be a number of training sessions taking place. In the afternoon a number of practical sessions at other nearby cave locations will be taking place.

| Ebborways Farm | Wookey Hole |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| **08:00 Breakfast**, and registration area open | |
| 10:00 Presentations, including | 09:30 Arrive and prepare diving equipment |
| 10:00 How to Find a Needle in a Haystack (Neil Reaich & Mark Jenkinson, MCR) | 10:00 Surface control procedures for divers |
| 10:45 CO2 Monitoring in Mendip Caves (Stuart MacManus & Martin Grass, MCR) | 10:30 – 14:30 Practical Sessions, including |
| 11:30 Crime Scene Awareness (Piers Hallihan, SMWCRT) | Evacuation of a Diver through a Sump |
| | Transportation of Equipment Through Sump |
| | Hauling and Rescue Rigging |
| | Use of Cave-link |
| | Full Face Mask Familiarisation |
| 10:00 – 16:00 Lyon Equipment Demonstrations and Kit Discussions | |
| 10:00 – 12:00 MREW Casualty Care Continual Development Signoff | |
| **12:00 – 00:00 Bar open** for sale of refreshments | |
| 13:30 Practical Sessions, including | |
| Underground Communication (Sludge Pit Hole) | |
| CO2 Monitoring (Cuckoo Cleeves) | |
| Updated Slix Stretcher Discussion (Wessex Tower) | |
| | 15:00 All rescue team members to have exited from the cave |
| | 15:00 Classroom session, including |
| | Observations & Evidence Gathering |
| | Recovery of a Drowned Diver |
| 16:00 Exploration of the World’s Deepest Cave and the Race to Escape It (Robbie Shone) | |
| **17:00 Wessex Challenge** | |
| 19:30 Hog Roast / Vegetarian alternative | |
| **21:00 “Seatrees”** Local band | |
| **00:00 Close** | |

---
**Note** Note that unless indicated otherwise, all sessions are suitable for all cavers. None of the sessions in Wookey Hole on Saturday will be in locations which are inaccessible to non divers and the cave diving group invites non divers to participate in order to facilitate understanding of cave diving. 

### Saturday Presentations

#### How to Find a Needle in a Haystack (Neil Reaich & Mark Jenkinson, MCR)

The geographical area that Mendip Cave Rescue cover includes the abandoned Bath Stone mines, over towards Box in Wiltshire. These Stone Mines are both complex and potentially unstable, leading to a number of call-outs in recent years where parties of underground explorers have been lost. This has lead to the MCR Stone Mines team coming up with a new method of searching a complex series of passages for a (possibly) missing party that may be ill prepared for their trip.

#### CO2 Monitoring in Mendip Caves (Stuart MacManus & Martin Grass, MCR)

A number of Mendip caves has historically had issues with "bad air", usually interpreted to be an increase in CO2. Over recent months, some monitoring of a number of sites has has been taking place to try to help increase out understanding of this issue. This monitoring has included the use of standard commercially available detectors, along with the development of a home made detector, which has led to some interesting results.

#### Crime Scene Awareness (Piers Hallihan, SMWCRT)

Most cave rescue incidents are, fortunately, relatively straightforward and are resolved without any serious incident. However, on the rare occasions when the incident is more serious, it is important to remember that the scene of the incident may be treated as a scene of crime, whilst investigations can take place. Piers Hallihan, from South Wales Police, will give a presentation on the things that cave rescue teams should consider when dealing with a potential crime scene.

#### Exploration of the World’s Deepest Cave and the Race to Escape It (Robbie Shone)

[Robbie Shone](http://www.shonephotography.com/adventure-cave-travel-photography-bio/) has been on a number of caving expeditions to remote parts of the world, where rescue would be difficult. Normally these expeditions pass without incident, but occasionally things can go wrong, and in September 2018 he was exploring and photographing at the furthest reaches of Veryovkina, the deepest cave in the world, when a flood pulse came through.

#### Observations & Evidence Gathering / Recovery of a Drowned Diver


### Saturday Practical Sessions

#### Underground Communication (Sludge Pit Hole)

A session with the various underground to surface communication systems that are currently available to cave rescue teams, including the [cave link](http://www.cavelink.com/cl3x_neu/index.php/en/) text messaging system, the [Nicola 3](http://www.caverescue.org.uk/nicolaradio/) radio system (running the latest firmware), and the original [HeyPhone](http://bcra.org.uk/creg/heyphone/) and micro-heyphone. This session will have some people underground and some people on the surface. Note that Sludge Pit Hole has a short ladder just inside the entrance, which will be rigged for the weekend, and those going underground will require a belay belt or suitable harness.

This session will be repeated on Sunday.

#### CO2 Monitoring (Cuckoo Cleeves)

A session with the various gas monitoring and detection devices that are currently available to cave rescue teams, following on from the presentation earlier. There will be the "Four Gas" and "Five Gas" monitors, generously [donated to cave rescue](http://www.caverescue.org.uk/honeywell-analytics-a-generous-donation/) teams by [Honeywell Analytics](https://www.honeywellanalytics.com/en-gb) earlier this year, plus the use of a home made detector as described in the earlier presentation. Note that Cuckoo Cleeves has a short ladder at the entrance, which will be rigged for the weekend and those going underground will require a belay belt or suitable harness. 

**Warning:** Cuckoo Cleeves has been chosen as the location for this session since there can be poor air quality in this cave, with a high build up of CO2, and people going underground should be aware of the symptoms of CO2 poisoning.

#### Updated Slix Stretcher Discussion (Wessex Tower)

The Slix Stretcher has long been in use by cave rescue teams as a method of packaging and safely transporting an injured casualty. Cave rescue teams have been working with React (the manufacturer of the stretcher) on a [number of improvements](https://www.caverescue.org.uk/new-look-slix/) to make the Slix stretchers more applicable for cave rescue, with improvements to the design for C-Spine immobilisation and the head support of casualties and changes to the hauling positions. The final prototype will be available over the ResCon weekend, and this session will be held at the [Wessex Tower](https://wessex-cave-club.org/the-hut/training-tower/) to check these changes and improvements one final time.

#### Transportation of Equipment Through Sump / Hauling and Rescue Rigging / Use of Cave-link (Wookey Hole Chamber 9)

#### Evacuation of a Diver through a Sump / Full Face Mask Familiarisation (Wookey Hole Resurgence)


### Saturday Other Sessions

#### Lyon Equipment Demonstrations and Kit Discussions

[Lyon Equipment](https://lyon.co.uk/) will have a display area with the ability to show, demonstrate and discuss items of kit close up with people throughout the weekend, including a quad-pod and tri-pod, basket stretcher and a full range of small items.

#### MREW Casualty Care Continual Development Signoff

The Mountain Rescue England & Wales Casualty Care Course now includes a number of Continual Development elements, leading up to the exam, practical assessment and qualification that lasts for three years. All Casualty Care qualified cave rescue team members area expected to be able to indicate a basic level of proficiency in a number of skills in the period leading up to the exam and assessment. Mendip Cave Rescue will have some equipment available (and suitably qualified medical experts) to allow casualty care cave rescue team members to demonstrate their proficiency and get sign off for a number of skills.

### Wessex Challenge

The [Wessex Challenge](https://www.facebook.com/groups/WessexChallengeEvent/) will be held, starting at approximately 17:00. This is a team obstacle course race that is held every couple of years, as a social occasion between Mendip Caving Clubs. This year the challenge will have a rescue theme, and visiting rescue teams are encouraged to take part.

### Seatrees

"[Seatrees](https://www.facebook.com/seatreesmusic/)" are a local band playing electric and acoustic guitars (including the ukulele), drums, bass & harmonica. They play a mixture of rock, folk and pop cover tracks, along with some original tunes which have built up a loyal following in the Somerset area.


